So the next place that we probably
wanna look at is go inside our for
loop and actually kind of look at what
we're doing with these elements in here.
For that actually, we're
gonna add a class list on our list
element and let's do that.
So classList, And
we add some dynamic classes here.
Right now, we're just gonna add completed.
And we're gonna say our element is
completed if todo.completed, right?
So hopefully, now when we add
something like Learn Solid and
we click on it,
our classes should be updating.
Maybe I have to save the file first.
Okay.
Well, we've had the set completed first,
obviously.
Sorry, got ahead of myself.
So far, we were only adding the styling.
So we actually have to set it up so
that when we click on our input on our
check box,
we actually toggle the completed state.
So, right, we need to first set
its check state to be todo.completed.
And then we should add an on input
handler to basically handle this.
I'm going to just use a function in
here that's going to basically call,
let's call toggle, for
lack of a better name,
and we're gonna pass the to do.id to it,
okay?
So we're gonna create a toggle function.
And I'm just gonna do this top level.
In different apps, you might necess
wherever you want to do it, but
we have everything we need right here.
So I'm just gonna go const
toggle equals function and
it's gonna take todo.Id.
And it's gonna do this.
Now, there's different ways for
us to do this.
Admittedly,
What I'm gonna do right here though,
is I'm going to
actually look up the todo
essentially in the list.
It's not terribly tricky
here because the index and
the ID aren't necessarily the same.
We're gonna find it and replace it.
We're gonna do this
differently by the end.
Because ultimately, what we're gonna do
is we're gonna go through our todos and
just switch the ones
that actually matched.
So what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna go todos and
I'm gonna switch it with,
let's go todos.map and remember todo.
And then essentially,
if todo.id not equal
todoId then return todo.
Otherwise, todo,
we're returning spread,
todoCompleted not
todo.completed, all right.
Refresh our app.
And when we refresh,
we'll see that we're now
properly changing the state and
updating our todo, okay?
The other functionality
that we should probably
add similarly is the ability
to remove a todo and
it looks pretty similar.
I'm gonna just go const remove.
And again, it's gonna take a todoId and
we're just gonna go set todos and
this one's a little bit simpler.
We can just filter out the todo
that has the todoId.
TodoId equals todoId.
And, Remove where are we,
yeah, destroy button onClick.
Remove, and actually, no,
we wanna pass the idea in,
so it's actually function remove todo.id,
okay?
Do this, do this, hello.
What's my error?
A sanity check.
Sometimes I get the filter backwards.
This is like, that's exactly what it is.
Yeah, it's not todoId.
Some reason in my head,
yeah, it's this way.
Okay, hello.
This is the very basic kind of todo
mechanism that we have going on here.
And let's see,
we can do a few other features.
One of the other ones that I wanna add is
the Select All which is we
need to kind of go back in and
add one more input element.
Essentially, it's in our section under
the show here, above here, okay.
Actually, I actually missed
earlier one section,
didn't really affect us very much.
But there should actually
be a main section
that wraps the whole UL and
the whole thing.
So let's just close that section.
All right, and inside the section,
there is an input.
And this input, Has
class equals toggle-all.
And we're actually gonna add an ID for
this because we're gonna actually
use a label here as well.
So it's gonna have a toggle all IDX and
we're gonna make it a type checkbox.
And we will add the functionality
to it in just a second.
Let's add the label first so
that we can see it.
And this is simply label for again,
for not HTML, for toggle-all, all right.
If everything works well when I do Hello,
we should now have a kind of
global check mark now that we
can apply to our changes to,
to all the items.
Okay, so, okay,
let's add our next handler here,
cuz on this input on input, we need to.
So this is our input for the toggle-all,
we need to add an event which
is going to let me think here.
We'll just call it toggle-all and
we'll define it above.
I think it's the easiest thing, okay.
Cons, toggle-all.
All right,
the important part about this event is
we actually have to get the, sorry.
We need the event here.
We need to get the checked
state of the check box.
So we're gonna grab that off
the target and target.checked.
And then, from here, we can basically
use the check state to swap them to match.
So, Then we should
be able to go set todos.
And again, what we're gonna do is
we're gonna map the existing todos,
essentially to what we're doing here.
Honestly, I'm gonna get rid
of these cobras, sorry.
This is one shot again todos.map.
Todo, and
then it should just be a matter of
switching it to whatever
the check state is.
I'm actually gonna call this completed,
essentially.
And we're just going to,
again spread the todo and
change completed to completed,
essentially.
Let's see you doing, right.
Remember, parentheses around
this because otherwise,
it thinks those curly braces are for
the function not for the object, right?
And try this out.
This isn't the full story though.
Cuz while this will check properly and
uncheck properly,
this is only half the story.
Cuz when I check this, this isn't checked.
So we now need to know how
to drive some state so
that we can make sure that
our check counts are right.
So what we're gonna do is this is our
first opportunity to use our next
primitive cuz we did we did
create signal already, right?
That was our first one.
Let's make a remaining count,
which we're gonna use create memo for
this one.
And, yeah, let's see here what
do you wanna do create memo.
We're going to basically compare.
It's kind of brute force
way of doing it but
we're gonna compare
the length of our todos
versus filtering out the completed ones.
Again, there's probably many
different ways to do this, but
I'm just gonna completed.length.
It's complete for me.
All right, and
then our remaining count now should
be whether this is checked or not.
So going down to that input,
checked is remaining count.
Remaining count, all right.
What have I broken, Jeremy?
[LAUGH] All right, todos filter,
let's make sure all our brackets match.
Do we have to return something, obviously?
Again, yeah,
can I do this without returning something?
There we go.
Did I forget to import create memo or
something?
I bet you that's 100.
That is, Yep,
100%, it says my biggest
failing here, all right.
So hopefully,
now when we create our Hello.
It's backwards, okay,
as usual, it is backwards.
Why is it backwards?
Let's see why it's backwards.
I guess it's probably,
I was trying to decide if it's
a logic backwards that's here.
But it's probably here that I wanna
do this, that's my gut, yeah.
Just gonna double check that.
Yeah, that was right.
Okay, perfect, so here we go.
Checked if we add more.
Yeah, so we are properly working, okay.